Update the C/Cpp coding style guide (#14064)
lowRISC/opentitan: doc/sg/c_cpp_coding_style.md

  do_something();
}
```

> ### Infinite loops
> Prefer `while(true){}` infinite loops rather then `for(;;)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Infinite loops

Prefer `while(true){}` infinite loops rather then `for(;;)`
```

### Comments

> Comments should be `// C99-style` for consistency with C++.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comments should use the `// C99-style` for consistency with C++.
```

  do_something();
}
```
### Infinite loops

Prefer `while(true){}` infinite loops rather than `for(;;)`

### Comments

Comments should use the `// C99-style` for consistency with C++.

<!-- To render a backtick in inline code in markdown, you need to double the surrounding backticks.
https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#code -->
Variables mentioned in comments should be delimited with backtick (`` ` ``) characters.
Example:

```c
// `ptr` can never be NULL for reasons.
```
Documentation comments should start with `/*` and non-doc comments should start with `//`.
Example:

```c
/**
 * This function sorts an int array very quickly.
 */

> void sort(int array[], int size){
>   // Loop through the array moving higher numbers to the end.
>   for(int i = 0; i < size; i++>){
>     ...
> }

Reviewer 2: nit: "size_t", "i++>", and missing brace
```suggestion
void sort(int array[], size_t size){
  // Loop through the array moving higher numbers to the end.
  for(size_t i = 0; i < size; ++i){
    ...
  }
}
```

Author: Fixed

  do_something();
}
```
### Infinite loops

Prefer `while(true){}` infinite loops rather than `for(;;)`

### Comments

Comments should use the `// C99-style` for consistency with C++.

<!-- To render a backtick in inline code in markdown, you need to double the surrounding backticks.
https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax#code -->
Variables mentioned in comments should be delimited with backtick (`` ` ``) characters.
Example:

```c
// `ptr` can never be NULL for reasons.
```
Documentation comments should start with `/*` and non-doc comments should start with `//`.
Example:

```c
/**
 * This function sorts an int array very quickly.
 */
void sort(int array[], size_t size){
  // Loop through the array moving higher numbers to the end.

>   for(size_t i = 0; i < size; i++>){

Reviewer 3: Should this be `++i` following: https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Preincrement_and_Predecrement

```suggestion
  for (size_t i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
```

Author: Fixed

***It is recommended to document public functions, classes, methods, and data structures in the header file with a Doxygen-style comment.***

The first line of the comment is the summary, followed by a new line, and an optional longer description.

> Input arguments and return arguments can be documented with `@param` and `@return` if they are not self-explanatory from the name. Output arguments should be documented with `@param[out]`.

Reviewer 4: Question: 'can' be documented or 'should'?
Can is weak, whereas should is more explicit. Might be worth checking the canonical reference to see if it is mentioned.

Author: Should is better

  - It can only be used with structs and unions, not arrays.
  - Members must be initialized in declaration order.

> Because it is especially useful with types declared for C, we allow designated initializers whenever the type is a plain-old-data type, and:

Reviewer 4: nit: **As** it is especially useful with types declared for C, we allow designated initializers whenever the type is a plain-old-data type, and:

As such, they are forbidden in the following contexts:
- Do not call overloaded functions with a designated initializer: `overloaded({ .foo = 0 })`.
  Instead, disambiguate with syntax like `T var = { .foo = 0 }; overloaded(var);`.
- Do not use designated initializers in any place where they would be used for type deduction.
  This includes `auto`, such as `auto var = { .foo = 0 };`, and a templated argument in a template function.

It is recommended to only use designated initializers with types which use C-style declarations.

> ### Naming
> **Structs, Classes and methods**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Naming

**Structs, Classes and methods**
```

> The names of structs, classes and methods must be in `CamelCase`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The names of structs, classes and methods must be in `CamelCase` format.
```

**Variable and class members naming**

> The names of variables (including function parameters) and data members must be in `lower_snake_case`. Data members of classes (but not structs) additionally have trailing underscores, unless the variable represents a constant which will follow the [rule](#function-enum-struct-and-typedef-naming).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The names of variables (including function parameters) and data members must be in `lower_snake_case` format. Data members of classes (but not structs) additionally have trailing underscores, unless the variable represents a constant that should follow the [rule](#function-enum-struct-and-typedef-naming).
```

For example:
```cpp
// in animal.cpp
public Class AnimalInfo{
  ...
private:
  uint32_t number_of_paws_;
  std::string name_;
public:
  static constexpr uint32_t kMaxNumOfPaws=100;

  void SetAnimalName(std::string new_name);
};
```

> ### Features
> The use of `C` features must be avoided in C++ code, such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Features

The use of `C` features must be avoided in C++ code, such as:
```

Reviewer: Probably best to write the bullet points below the other way around, saying "Use [C thing] instead of [C++ thing]".

> - Use `C++` style casting (`static_cat`, `reinterpret_cast` and etc) rather then `C` style casting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `C++`-style casting (`static_cat`, `reinterpret_cast`, etc.) rather then `C`-style casting.
```

- Use the `const_expr` keyword to define constants rather than `const`.

> - Use the `nullprt` keyword rather then `NULL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `nullptr` keyword rather than `NULL`.
```

As such, they are forbidden in the following contexts:
- Do not call overloaded functions with a designated initializer: `overloaded({ .foo = 0 })`.
  Instead, disambiguate with syntax like `T var = { .foo = 0 }; overloaded(var);`.
- Do not use designated initializers in any place where they would be used for type deduction.
  This includes `auto`, such as `auto var = { .foo = 0 };`, and a templated argument in a template function.

It is recommended to only use designated initializers with types which use C-style declarations.

### Naming
**Structs, Classes and methods**

The names of structs, classes and methods must be in `CamelCase` format.

> **Variable and class members naming**

Reviewer 2: I agree, might be easier to just add these links with a note like "Make sure to review these guidelines..."

> **Variable and class members naming**

Author: I've linked the Google c++ guide and kept the guide here.

The names of variables (including function parameters) and data members must be in `lower_snake_case` format. Data members of classes (but not structs) additionally have trailing underscores, unless the variable represents a constant that should follow the [rule](#function-enum-struct-and-typedef-naming).

For example:
```cpp
// in animal.cpp
public Class AnimalInfo{
  ...
private:
  uint32_t number_of_paws_;
  std::string name_;
public:
  static constexpr uint32_t kMaxNumOfPaws=100;

  void SetAnimalName(std::string new_name);
};
```

### Features

Avoid using `C-style` features in C++ code, here are some examples:

> - Use `C++-style` casting (`static_cat`, `reinterpret_cast`, etc) rather than `C-style` casting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `C++-style` casting (`static_cast`, `reinterpret_cast`, etc) rather than `C-style` casting.
```

Author: fixed

- Use the `const_expr` keyword to define constants rather than `const`.
- Use the `nullptr` keyword rather than `NULL`.
- Use `std::endl` rather than  `'\n'`.

> - Use `new` and `delete` rather than `malloc()` and `free()`.

Author: Done.

As such, they are forbidden in the following contexts:
- Do not call overloaded functions with a designated initializer: `overloaded({ .foo = 0 })`.
  Instead, disambiguate with syntax like `T var = { .foo = 0 }; overloaded(var);`.
- Do not use designated initializers in any place where they would be used for type deduction.
  This includes `auto`, such as `auto var = { .foo = 0 };`, and a templated argument in a template function.

It is recommended to only use designated initializers with types which use C-style declarations.

### Naming

> **Structs, Classes and methods**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Structs, Classes and Methods**
```

Author: Fixed

> As stated by the [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Type_Names),the names of structs, classes and methods must be in `CamelCase` format.

Reviewer 5: nit:
```suggestion
As stated by the [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Type_Names), the names of structs, classes and methods must be in `CamelCase` format.
```

Author: Fixed

> **Variable and class members naming**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Variable and Class Members Naming**
```

Author: Fixed

> As stated by the [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Variable_Names),the names of variables (including function parameters) and data members must be in `lower_snake_case` format. Data members of classes (but not structs) additionally have trailing underscores, unless the variable represents a constant that should follow the [rule](#function-enum-struct-and-typedef-naming).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As stated by the [Google C++ Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Variable_Names), the names of variables (including function parameters) and data members must be in `lower_snake_case` format. Data members of classes (but not structs) additionally have trailing underscores, unless the variable represents a constant that should follow the [rule](#function-enum-struct-and-typedef-naming).
```

Author: Fixed

For example:
```cpp
// in animal.cpp
public Class AnimalInfo{
  ...
private:
  uint32_t number_of_paws_;
  std::string name_;
public:
  static constexpr uint32_t kMaxNumOfPaws=100;

  void SetAnimalName(std::string new_name);
};
```

### Features

Avoid using `C-style` features in C++ code, here are some examples:
- Use `C++-style` casting (`static_cast`, `reinterpret_cast`, etc) rather than `C-style` casting.

> - Use the `const_expr` keyword to define constants rather than `const`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `constexpr` keyword to define constants rather than `const`.
```

Author: Fixed

- Use the `nullptr` keyword rather than `NULL`.
- Use `std::endl` rather than `'\n'`.
- Use `new` and `delete` rather than `malloc()` and `free()`.

> - Use smart pointers rather then pointers. Refer to [Ownership and Smart Pointers](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Ownership_and_Smart_Pointers) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use smart pointers rather than pointers. Refer to [Ownership and Smart Pointers](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Ownership_and_Smart_Pointers) for more details.
```

Author: Fixed

  void SetAnimalName(std::string new_name);
};
```

### Features

Avoid using `C-style` features in C++ code, here are some examples:
- Use `C++-style` casting (`static_cat`, `reinterpret_cast`, etc) rather than `C-style` casting.
- Use the `const_expr` keyword to define constants rather than `const`.
- Use the `nullptr` keyword rather than `NULL`.

> - Use `std::endl` rather than  `'\n'`.

Reviewer 4: nit: double space before `'\n'` --> replace with single.

Author: fixed

In contrast to the recommendation in the Google C++ style guide, exporting macros as part of the public API is allowed in C code.
A typical use case is a header with register definitions.

**Function-like macros**
Function-like macros should be avoided whenever possible since they are error-prone. Where they are necessary, they should be hygienic. Here are some useful tips:

> - Expand the macro arguments between brackets `()` since the caller could use an expression as argument.

Reviewer 4: nit: Expand the macro arguments between brackets `()` **as** the caller could use an expression as **an** argument.

- Variables local to the macro must be named with a trailing underscore `_`.
- Wrap up multiline macros inside a block `do { ... } while (false)` to make them expand to a single statement.
    For example:
    ```c
    #define CHECK(condition, ...)                      \
    do {                                               \
      if (!(condition)) {                              \
        ...                                            \
      }                                                \
    } while (false)
    ```

> - Don't finish macros with semicolon `;` to force the caller to include it.

Reviewer 4: nit: Don't finish macros with **a** semicolon

C11 introduces a number of undescore-prefixed keywords, such as `_Static_assert`, `_Bool`, and `_Noreturn`, which do not have a C++ counterpart.
These should be avoided in preference for macros that wrap them, such as `static_assert`, `bool`, and `noreturn`.

### Constants and Preprocessor Macros
**Constants**
  Prefer using a `enum` to define named constants rather than Preprocessor Macros or even `const int` in `C` because:
  - It appears in the symbol table which improves debugging in contrast to Macros.
  - It can be used as `case` labels in a `switch` statement in contrast to `const int`.
  - It can be used as the dimension of global arrays in contrast to `const int`.

>   - It don't use any memory as well as Macros.  

Reviewer 6: s/don't/doesn't/

Author: Fixed

In contrast to the recommendation in the Google C++ style guide, exporting macros as part of the public API is allowed in C code.
A typical use case is a header with register definitions.

**Function-line macros**

> Function-like macros should be avoided whenever is possible since it is costly to maintain. Where it is necessary, it should be hygienic, here are some useful tips:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Function-like macros should be avoided whenever possible since they are error-prone. Where they are necessary, they should be hygienic. Here are some useful tips:
```

- Expand the macro arguments between brackets `()` since the caller could use an expression as argument.

> - Local variables to the macro must be named with trailing underscore `_`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Variables local to the macro must be named with a trailing underscore `_`.
```

> - Wrap up multiline macros inside a block `do{...}while(false)` to make it expand to a single statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wrap up multiline macros inside a block `do{...}while(false)` to make them expand to a single statement.
```

In contrast to the recommendation in the Google C++ style guide, exporting macros as part of the public API is allowed in C code.
A typical use case is a header with register definitions.

**Function-like macros**
Function-like macros should be avoided whenever possible since they are error-prone. Where they are necessary, they should be hygienic. Here are some useful tips:
- Expand the macro arguments between brackets `()` since the caller could use an expression as argument.
- Variables local to the macro must be named with a trailing underscore `_`.

> - Wrap up multiline macros inside a block `do{...}while(false)` to make them expand to a single statement.

Reviewer 3: nit: I would find some spaces more readable: `do { ... } while (false)`.

Would it be worth adding a nice block example? e.g.

```c
#define CHECK(condition, ...)                        \
  do {                                               \
    if (!(condition)) {                              \
      ...                                            \
    }                                                \
  } while (false)
```

In contrast to the recommendation in the Google C++ style guide, exporting macros as part of the public API is allowed in C code.
A typical use case is a header with register definitions.

> **Function-like macros**

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Function-like Macros**

```

Author: Fixed

### Nonstandard Compiler Builtins

> In order to avoid a total reliance on one single compiler, any nonstandard compiler builtins (also known as intrinsics) should be used via a single canonical definition.

Reviewer 4: nit: **In order to avoid total reliance on a single compiler**

Author: Fixed

> This ensures changes to add compatibility for other compilers are less invasive, as we already have a function to include a full implementation within.

Reviewer 4: nit: This ensures changes **that** add compatibility for other compilers are less invasive, as we already have a function **that includes a full implementation**.

Author: Fixed
